README/contributing: update after migration to Gatsby (#1138)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/contributing/docs.md

We will review your PR as soon as possible. Thank you for contributing!

## Installation

Make sure you have the latest LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) installed.

Run `yarn`.

## Commands

- `yarn develop` - run dev server with hot reload.
- `yarn build` - build static assets to `public` folder.
- `yarn serve` - run static server over the `public` folder content to check
  build results.
- `yarn lint-ts` - lint `.ts` and `.tsx` for compilance with code style and
  check its for type errors.

> - `yarn lint-css` - lint `.css` files for compilance with code style.

Reviewer: Some commands are missing from this list. Maybe some of them (including build and serve) should stay in README and just link to that section of README from here?

Reviewer: Maybe some of them (including build and serve) should stay in README and just link to that section of README from here?

$ yarn develop
```

This will start the server on the default port, `8000`. Visit
`http://localhost:8000/` and navigate to the page in question. This will also
enable the Git pre-commit hook that will be formatting and linting your code and
documentation files automatically.

### All available commands

To build the project and run it:

- `yarn build` - build assets in the `public` directory (`gatsby build`).

> - `yarn develop` - run development server with hot reload (`gatsby develop`).

Reviewer: Put develop before build? Not sure we need to specify the underlying gatsby command.

Author: build should probably still go first, removed gatsby thingy

Reviewer: To my ming you use develop first, when you're happy you do build + serve. But OK not a big deal obviously.

Author: k, let's change it ... not a big deal

- `yarn start` - run production static server over the `public` directory.

If you change source code files, run tests:

> - `yarn test` - run tests.

Reviewer: Isn't this one also enforced automatically upon submitting PRs? Maybe add that note on the top of the section so no need to repeat it in every group of commands.

Author: put a note on enforcment to the very top of this section to avoid duplication

> We use [`prettier`](https://prettier.io/) to format our source code, below is a
> set of pre-built commands for your convenience. All of these checks will be
> enforced automatically upon [submitting PRs](#submitting-changes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) to format our source code, below is a
set of wrapper commands for your convenience. All of these checks will be
enforced automatically upon [submitting PRs](#submitting-changes).
```

- `yarn format-check` - check all source and content files that they are
  properly formatted. This command does not fix any found issue, only reports
  them.
- `yarn format-all` - fix all found problems.

> - `yarn format-staged` - same, but only on staged files.

Reviewer: Probably no need for users to rn this manually?
```suggestion
```

Author: we mention this below as well. I would say let's keep - it does not hurt and may be will help someone

- `yarn format` - run this command `yarn format <file-name>` to format a
  specific file.

> We use `tsc`, `eslint`, and other linters to check source code style and find

Reviewer: if "other linters" is just `stylelint` maybe just mention it in this list and not say "and others".

Reviewer: Maybe link to their websites (by name without back quotes).

Author: yes, will simplify this

different errors. All of these checks will be enforced automatically upon
[submitting PRs](#submitting-changes).

- `yarn lint-ts` - lint source code files (`.ts`, `.js`, `tsx`, etc).

> - `yarn lint-css` - lint `.css` files.

Reviewer: add `yarn eslint` for individual js files?

Author: we'll have to include stylelint then ... let's keep this list close to what we have in the `package.json`, and clarify that is not a complete one.

Other commands:

- `yarn link-check` - runs script to detect broken URLs (e.g. those that return

>   404 - Not Found) in the content.

Reviewer: Mention requirements? `pcregrep`, GNU `sed` (the stock one in macOS doesn't work AFAIR).

Author: Let's not go that much into details. This is dev docs - dev should be able to figure this out I hope. If not it's better to rewrite this in JS eventually or in a posix compatible way (I remember I was running it locally on Mac w/o problems btw)

### ENV variables

> There are environment variables production code depends on (e.g. to deploy
> itself properly), or those that can be used to debug the project. Please, check
> the production system settings to see all variables that production and
> deployment system depend on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some environment variables are required to deploy this project to
production, others (optional) can be used to debug the project. Please
check the production system settings to see all the variables that
production and deployment system depend on.
```

Reviewer: > check the production system settings to see all the variables that production and deployment system depend on.

I don't really understand this sentence though 🙁

> Some useful variables:

Reviewer: So these are just the optional ones?

Author: no, I was really hesitant to keep this section at all ... I don't want to support it, but decided to mention this just in case next JS folks see this and will also at least ask question how to get the full list

Reviewer: OK. But I guess you don't need any of these for local dev. I don't have any, for example.

Author: You need actually, if you want to test certain production-related engine things locally. But again, this section is here purely for JS devs, to give them a hint about prod vars, etc
